pani puri recipe - a popular street food of india, where crisp fried dough balls are stuffed with potatoes, sprouts, spicy tangy water or sweet chutney.

course: snacks
cuisine: Indian
servings: 4
author: dassana amit
ingredients - measuring cup used, 1 cup = 250 ml
other ingredients:
24 to 30 puris, you could buy these puris readymade or make them at home
1 small bowl of tamarind chutney or tamarind dates chutney
For the stuffing - * check notes for other options
2 to 3 medium potatoes (aloo)
1 small to medium onion (pyaaz)
1 to 1.5 tablespoon chopped coriander leaves (dhania patta)
1 teaspoon roasted cumin powder (bhuna jeera powder)
1 teaspoon chaat masala powder
¼ teaspoon red chili powder, (lal mirch powder) optional
black salt as required
For the Pani Recipe:
½ cup chopped mint leaves (pudina patta)
¾ cup chopped coriander leaves (dhania patta)
1 inch ginger, (adrak), chopped
1 green chili, (hari mirch), chopped (for a spicy pani, add about 2 to 3 green chilies)
1 tablespoon tightly packed tamarind (imli)
3 to 3.5 tablespoons crumbled or powdered jaggery or sugar or add as required OR 1.5 tablespoons chopped seedless dates & 1.5 tablespoons powdered jaggery, the sweetness can be adjusted as per your taste
1 teaspoon roasted cumin powder (bhuna jeera powder)
1 teaspoon chaat masala powder
2 to 3 cups water add water as per the consistency you want
1 to 1.5 tablespoon boondi (fried tiny gram flour balls), optional
black salt as required
how to prepare recipe
Preparing the Stuffing:
Boil the potatoes till they are cooked completely.
Peel them and then chop them.
Finely chop the onion.
In a small bowl, mix the potatoes, onions, coriander leaves, cumin powder, chaat masala powder and black salt. Mix well and keep aside.
Method to make the Pani:
In a blender add all the ingredients mentioned above for the pani.
Add little water and grind to a fine chutney.
Remove the green chutney in a large bowl. Add 2 to 3 cups water. Mix well. Check the seasoning. Add more black salt or jeera powder or chaat masala if required. If you want a thin pani, you could add some water. But keep on checking the seasoning, as per your taste.
Add the boondi to the pani.
You can chill the pani in the fridge or add some ice cubes to it..
Assembling Pani Puri:
Crack the top of the puri with a spoon.
Add 2 to 3 tsp of the boiled potato-onion filling in the poori.
Stir the green pani first and then it and the sweet chutney as per your taste.
Serve the pani puri immediately.
You can also make individual portions with the puris, potato-onion mixture and the pani. Let the individual assemble the pani puri for himself/herself as per his/her taste.
Recipe Notes
* other stuffing combinations or a combination of these:
steamed moong sprouts
boiled white chickpeas (kabuli chana)
boiled black chickpeas (kala chana)
boiled potatoes
chopped onions
chopped coriander leaves
ragda - a dry white peas preparation

* to make the pani hot and spicy, you can add one more green chili.
